EX-10.1
2
ex101.htm
EX-10.1
ex101
AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO FIFTH AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT   This AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO FIFTH AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT  AGREEMENT is dated as of August 24, 2023 (this “Amendment”), among AMERESCO, INC.  (the “Borrower”), THE GUARANTORS PARTY HERETO (the “Guarantors” and collectively  with the Borrower, the “Loan Parties”), THE LENDERS PARTY HERETO (the “Lenders”), and  BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the “Administrative Agent”).  WHEREAS, the Loan Parties, the Lenders, and the Administrative Agent are parties to that  certain Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 4, 2022, as amended by  an Amendment No. 1 thereto dated as of June 9, 2022, and Amendment No. 2 thereto dated as of  March 17, 2023, among the Borrower, the Guarantors, the Lenders, and the Administrative Agent  (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the “Credit  Agreement”);  WHEREAS, the Loan Parties, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders wish to extend  the Maturity Date of the Delayed Draw Term A Loan, revise one financial covenant on a temporary  basis, and make certain other changes to the Credit Agreement, and accordingly revise the Credit  Agreement, as described herein;  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the agreements contained  herein, the parties agree that the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:  1. Capitalized Terms. Except as otherwise expressly defined herein, all capitalized  terms used herein which are defined in the Credit Agreement have the same meanings herein as  therein, except to the extent that such meanings are amended hereby.  2. Amendment to Credit Agreement.    (a) Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete the definitions  of “Base Rate,” “Fee Letter,” “Maturity Date,” “SOFR,” “Successor Rate” and “TARGET Day”  in their entirety and replace them with the following new definitions of such terms:  “Base Rate” means for any day a fluctuating rate of interest per annum equal to the  highest of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50%, (b) the rate of interest in effect for such  day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its “prime rate,” and  (c) the Secured Overnight Financing Rate published on such day by the SOFR  Administrator on the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s website (or any successor  source) plus the SORF Adjustment plus 1.00%, subject to the interest rate floors set forth  therein; provided that if the Base Rate shall be less than zero, such rate shall be deemed  zero for purposes of this Agreement. The “prime rate” is a rate set by Bank of America  based upon various factors including Bank of America’s costs and desired return, general  economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some  loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such  prime rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on  the day specified in the public announcement of such change. If the Base Rate is being  used as an alternate rate of interest pursuant to Section 3.03 hereof, then the Base Rate shall  134001872v.3
2    be the greater of clauses (a) and (b) above and shall be determined without reference to  clause (c) above.  “Fee Letter” means the letter agreement, dated July 27, 2023, between the  Borrower and the Administrative Agent.  “Maturity Date” means (a) with respect to the Revolving Facility, March 4, 2025,  (b) with respect to the Term A Facility, March 4, 2025 and (c) with respect to the Delayed  Draw Term A Facility, December 15, 2023; provided, however, that, in each case, if such  date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.  “SOFR” means, with respect to any applicable determination date, the Secured  Overnight Financing Rate published on the fifth U.S. Government Securities Business Day  preceding such date by the SOFR Administrator on the Federal Reserve Bank of New  York’s website (or any successor source); provided however that if such determination date  is not a U.S. Government Securities Business Day, then SOFR means such rate that applied  on the first U.S. Government Securities Business Day immediately prior thereto.  “Successor Rate” has the meaning specified in Section 3.03(c).  “TARGET Day” means any day on which T2 is open for the settlement of payments  in Euro.  (b) Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby further amended to delete the  definition of “TARGET2” it its entirety and to insert the following new definitions in alphabetical  order:  “Amendment No. 3” means Amendment No. 3 to Fifth Amended and Restated  Credit Agreement dated as of August 24, 2023, among the Borrower, the Guarantors, the  Lenders and the Administrative Agent.  “Amendment No. 3 Effective Time” means the first Business Day on which each  of the conditions of the effectiveness of Amendment No. 3 pursuant to Section 6 thereof  has been satisfied.  “T2” means the real time gross settlement system operated by the Eurosystem, or  any successor system.  (c) Section 2.07 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting paragraph (a)  in its entirety and replacing it with the following:  (a) Term Loans. The Borrower shall repay to the Term Lenders the aggregate  principal amount of all Term A Loans outstanding in quarterly principal installments on  the last Business Day of each quarter commencing March 31, 2024, in the amount of  $1,250,000, and shall pay $45,000,000 of the aggregate principal amount of all Delayed  Draw Term A Loans on or before November 15, 2023, and the balance of the outstanding
3    principal amount of all Delayed Draw Term A Loans on December 15, 20231 (which  amounts shall be reduced as a result of the application of prepayments in accordance with  the order of priority set forth in Section 2.05), unless accelerated sooner pursuant to Section  8.02; provided, however, that (i) the final principal repayment installment of the Term A  Loans shall be repaid on the Maturity Date for the Term A Facility and in any event shall  be in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of all Term A Loans outstanding  on such date, (ii) if any principal repayment installment to be made by the Borrower (other  than principal repayment installments on Term SOFR Loans) shall come due on a day other  than a Business Day, such principal repayment installment shall be due on the next  succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing  interest or fees, as the case may be and (iii) if any principal repayment installment to be  made by the Borrower on a Term SOFR Loan shall come due on a day other than a Business  Day, such principal repayment installment shall be extended to the next succeeding  Business Day unless the result of such extension would be to extend such principal  repayment installment into another calendar month, in which event such principal  repayment installment shall be due on the immediately preceding Business Day.  (d) Section 2.12 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following  new paragraph (f) immediately after paragraph (e) and renumbering the existing paragraph (f) as  paragraph (g):  (f) Insufficient Funds. If at any time insufficient funds are received by and  available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, L/C  Borrowings, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first,  toward payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled  thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and  (ii) second, toward payment of principal and L/C Borrowings then due hereunder, ratably  among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and L/C  Borrowings then due to such parties.  (e) Section 3.03 is hereby amended by deleting the first paragraph of paragraph (a) in  its entirety and replacing it with the following:  (a) Inability to Determine SOFR.  If in connection with any request for a Term  SOFR Loan or an Alternative Currency Loan or a conversion of Base Rate Loans to Term  SOFR Loans or an Alternative currency Loan or a continuation of any of such Loans, as  applicable, (i) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be  conclusive absent manifest error) that (A) no Successor Rate for the Relevant Rate for the  applicable Agreed Currency has been determined in accordance with Section 3.03(b) or  Section 3.03(c), and the circumstances under clause (i) of Section 3.03(b) or of Section  3.03(c) or the Scheduled Unavailability Date, or the SOFR Scheduled Unavailability Date,  has occurred with respect to such Relevant Rate (as applicable), or (B) adequate and  reasonable means do not otherwise exist for determining such Relevant Rate for the  applicable Agreed Currency for any determination date or requested Interest Period, as    1 Note: The payment of $55,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Delayed Draw Term A Loans, as provided in  Section 6(c) of this Amendment, is a condition of the effectiveness of this Amendment.
4    applicable, with respect to a proposed Term SOFR Loan or Alternative Currency Loan or  in connection with an existing or proposed Base Rate Loan, or (ii) the Administrative Agent  or the Required Lenders determine that for any reason that the Relevant Rate with respect  to a proposed Loan denominated in an Agreed Currency for any requested Interest Period  or determination date(s) does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of  funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and  each Lender.  (f) Section 3.03 of the Credit Agreement is further amended by deleting all but the  final six paragraphs of paragraph (b) it its entirety and replacing it with new paragraphs (b) and (c)  and designating the final six paragraphs of Section 3.03 as paragraph (d) with the heading  “Successor Rate” as follows:  (b) Replacement of SOFR or SOFR Successor Rate. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Documents, if the Administrative  Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error), or the  Borrower or Required Lenders notify the Administrative Agent (with, in the case of the  Required Lenders, a copy to the Borrower) that the Borrower or Required Lenders (as  applicable) have determined, that:  (i) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining SOFR  because SOFR is not available or published on a current basis and such  circumstances are unlikely to be temporary; or  (ii) the Applicable Authority has made a public statement identifying a  specific date after which SOFR shall or will no longer be representative or made  available, or permitted to be used for determining the interest rate of syndicated  loans denominated in Dollars, or shall or will otherwise cease, provided that, in  each case, at the time of such statement, there is no successor administrator that is  satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that will continue to provide SOFR on a  representative basis (the date on which SOFR is no longer representative or  available permanently or indefinitely, the “SOFR Scheduled Unavailability  Date”);   or if the events or circumstances of the type described in Section 3.03(b)(i) or (ii) have  occurred with respect to the SOFR Successor Rate then in effect, then, the Administrative  Agent and the Borrower may amend this Agreement solely for the purpose of replacing  SOFR for Dollars or any then current SOFR Successor Rate for Dollars in accordance with  this Section 3.03 with an alternative benchmark rate giving due consideration to any  evolving or then existing convention for similar credit facilities syndicated and agented in  the U.S. and denominated in Dollars for such alternative benchmarks, and, in each case,  including any mathematical or other adjustments to such benchmark giving due  consideration to any evolving or then existing convention for similar credit facilities  syndicated and agented in the U.S. and denominated in Dollars for such benchmarks (and  any such proposed rate, including for the avoidance of doubt, any adjustment thereto, a  “SOFR Successor Rate”), and any such amendment shall become effective at 5:00 p.m.  on the fifth Business Day after the Administrative Agent shall have posted such proposed
5    amendment to all Lenders and the Borrower unless, prior to such time, Lenders comprising  the Required Lenders have delivered to the Administrative Agent written notice that such  Required Lenders object to such amendment.  (c) Replacement of Relevant Rate or Successor Rate.  Notwithstanding  anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Documents, if the  Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest  error), or the Borrower or Required Lenders notify the Administrative Agent (with, in the  case of the Required Lenders, a copy to the Borrower) that the Borrower or Required  Lenders (as applicable) have determined, that:  (i) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the  Relevant Rate (other than SOFR) for an Agreed Currency (other than Dollars)  because none of the tenors of such Relevant Rate (other than SOFR) under this  Agreement is available or published on a current basis and such circumstances are  unlikely to be temporary; or  (ii) the Applicable Authority has made a public statement identifying a  specific date after which all tenors of the Relevant Rate (other than SOFR) for an  Agreed Currency (other than Dollars) under this Agreement shall or will no longer  be representative or made available, or permitted to be used for determining the  interest rate of syndicated loans denominated in such Agreed Currency (other than  Dollars), or shall or will otherwise cease, provided that, in each case, at the time of  such statement, there is no successor administrator that is satisfactory to the  Administrative Agent that will continue to provide such representative tenor(s) of  the Relevant Rate (other than SOFR) for such Agreed Currency (other than Dollars)  (the latest date on which all tenors of the Relevant Rate for such Agreed Currency  (other than Dollars) under this Agreement are no longer representative or available  permanently or indefinitely, the “Scheduled Unavailability Date”);  or if the events or circumstances of the type described in Section 3.03(c)(i) or (ii) have  occurred with respect to the Successor Rate then in effect, then, the Administrative Agent  and the Borrower may amend this Agreement solely for the purpose of replacing the  Relevant Rate for an Agreed Currency or any then current Successor Rate for an Agreed  Currency in accordance with this Section 3.03 with an alternative benchmark rate giving  due consideration to any evolving or then existing convention for similar credit facilities  syndicated and agented in the U.S. and denominated in such Agreed Currency for such  alternative benchmarks, and, in each case, including any mathematical or other adjustments  to such benchmark giving due consideration to any evolving or then existing convention  for similar credit facilities syndicated and agented in the U.S. and denominated in such  Agreed Currency for such benchmarks (and any such proposed rate, including for the  avoidance of doubt, any adjustment thereto, a “Non-SOFR Successor Rate”, and  collectively with the SOFR Successor Rate, each a “Successor Rate”), and any such  amendment shall become effective at 5:00 p.m. on the fifth Business Day after the  Administrative Agent shall have posted such proposed amendment to all Lenders and the  Borrower unless, prior to such time, Lenders comprising the Required Lenders have
6    delivered to the Administrative Agent written notice that such Required Lenders object to  such amendment.  (g) Section 7.10 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting paragraph (a)  in its entirety and replacing it with the following:  (a) Total Funded Debt to EBITDA Ratio.  The Loan Parties shall not permit the  Core Leverage Ratio as of the end of each fiscal quarter (i) ending on June 30, 2023 to  exceed 4.00 to 1.00, (ii) ending on September 30, 2023 to exceed 4.25 to 1.00, and (ii) for  any quarter ending thereafter, to exceed 3.50 to 1.00.  (h) Section 11.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to change the reference  to “Section 2.12(f)” in Section 11.01(a)(v) to read “Section 2.12(g).”  3. Confirmation of Guaranty by Guarantors. Each Guarantor hereby confirms and  agrees that all indebtedness, obligations or liabilities of the Borrower under the Credit Agreement  as amended hereby, whether any such indebtedness, obligations and liabilities are now existing or  hereafter arising, due or to become due, absolute or contingent, or direct or indirect, constitute  “Guaranteed Obligations” under and as defined in the Credit Agreement and, subject to the  limitation set forth in Section 10.01 of the Credit Agreement, are guaranteed by and entitled to the  benefits of the Guaranty set forth in Article X of the Credit Agreement. Each Guarantor hereby  ratifies and confirms the terms and provisions of such Guarantor’s Guaranty and agrees that all of  such terms and provisions remain in full force and effect.  4. Confirmation of Security Interests. Each Loan Party hereby confirms and agrees  that all indebtedness, obligations and liabilities of the Loan Parties under the Credit Agreement as  amended hereby, whether any such indebtedness, obligations and liabilities are now existing or  hereafter arising, due or to become due, absolute or contingent, or direct or indirect, constitute  “Secured Obligations” under and as defined in the Credit Agreement and are secured by the  Collateral and entitled to the benefits of the grant of security interests pursuant to the Security  Agreement. The Loan Parties hereby ratify and confirm the terms and provisions of the Security  Agreement and agree that, after giving effect to this Amendment, all of such terms and provisions  remain in full force and effect.  5. No Default; Representations and Warranties, etc. The Loan Parties hereby confirm  that, after giving effect to this Amendment, (i) the representations and warranties of the Loan  Parties contained in Article V of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents (A) that  contain a materiality qualification are true and correct on and as of the date hereof as if made on  such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier  date), and (B) that do not contain a materiality qualification are true and correct in all material  respects on and as of the date hereof as if made on such date (except to the extent that such  representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date), and (ii) no Default or Event of  Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Each Loan Party hereby further represents and  warrants that (a) the execution, delivery and performance by such Loan Party of this Amendment  (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary action on the part of such Loan Party, (ii) will not  violate any applicable law or regulation or the organizational documents of such Loan Party, (iii)  will not violate or result in a default under any indenture, agreement or other instrument binding
7    on such Loan Party or any of its assets that will have a Material Adverse Effect, and (iv) do not  require any consent, waiver, approval, authorization or order of, or filing, registration or  qualification with, any court or governmental authority or any Person (other than the  Administrative Agent and the Lenders) which has not been made or obtained; and (b) it has duly  executed and delivered this Amendment.  6. Conditions to Effectiveness. This Amendment shall become effective upon the  receipt by the Administrative Agent of all of the following:  (a) counterparts of this Amendment duly executed by the Loan Parties, the  Administrative Agent and all the Lenders or written evidence reasonably satisfactory to the  Administrative Agent that such parties have signed a counterpart of this Amendment;  (b) such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent may reasonably  request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of each Loan Party, the  authorization of the transactions contemplated hereby and any other legal matters relating to the  Loan Parties, this Amendment or the other Loan Documents, all in form and substance reasonably  satisfactory to the Administrative Agent;  (c) payment by the Borrower to the Term Lenders of $55,000,000 of the aggregate  principal amount of the Delayed Draw Term Loan A; and   (d) payment by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the  Administrative Agent and the Lenders of the amounts provided in the Fee Letter.  7. Miscellaneous.  (a) Except to the extent specifically amended hereby, the Credit Agreement, the Loan  Documents and all related documents shall remain in full force and effect. This Amendment shall  constitute a Loan Document. Whenever the terms or sections amended hereby shall be referred to  in the Credit Agreement, Loan Documents or such other documents (whether directly or by  incorporation into other defined terms), such defined terms shall be deemed to refer to those terms  or sections as amended by this Amendment.  (b) This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which,  when executed and delivered, shall be an original, but all counterparts shall together constitute one  instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Amendment by  facsimile transmission or electronic transmission (in .pdf format) will be effective as delivery of a  manually executed counterpart hereof.  This Amendment may be in the form of an Electronic  Record and may be executed using Electronic Signatures (including, without limitation, facsimile  and .pdf) and shall be considered an original, and shall have the same legal effect, validity and  enforceability as a paper record.  For the avoidance of doubt, the authorization under this paragraph  may include, without limitation, use or acceptance by the Administrative Agent of a manually  signed paper communication which has been converted into electronic form (such as scanned into  .pdf format), or an electronically signed communication converted into another format, for  transmission, delivery and/or retention.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the  contrary, the Administrative Agent is under no obligation to accept an Electronic Signature in any  form or in any format unless expressly agreed to by the Administrative Agent pursuant to
8    procedures approved by it; provided, further, without limiting the foregoing, (a) to the extent the  Administrative Agent has agreed to accept such Electronic Signature, the Administrative Agent  shall be entitled to rely on any such Electronic Signature purportedly given by or on behalf of a  Person without further verification and (b) upon the request of the Administrative Agent, any  Electronic Signature shall be promptly followed by a manually executed, original counterpart.  (c) This Amendment shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York and shall  be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and  assigns.  (d) The Loan Parties agree to pay all reasonable expenses, including legal fees and  disbursements, incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with this Amendment and the  transactions contemplated hereby.  [Signature Pages Follow]
[Signature Page to Amendment No. 3 to Fifth Amended and Restated Ameresco Credit Agreement]  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment, which shall  be deemed to be a sealed instrument as of the date first above written.    BORROWER    AMERESCO, INC.  By: /s/ Spencer Doran Hole  Spencer Doran Hole  Treasurer, Executive Vice President and Chief  Financial Officer    GUARANTORS    AMERESCO FEDERAL SOLUTIONS, INC.  AMERESCO PLANERGY HOUSING, INC.  AMERESCO SELECT, INC.  AMERESCOSOLUTIONS, INC.  APPLIED ENERGY GROUP INC.  JUICE TECHNOLOGIES, INC.  SIERRA ENERGY COMPANY  By: /s/ Spencer Doran Hole  Spencer Doran Hole  Vice President and Treasurer  AMERESCO SOUTHWEST, INC.      By: /s/ Spencer Doran Hole   Spencer Doran Hole  Vice President and Treasurer  E.THREE CUSTOM ENERGY SOLUTIONS, LLC,  By: Sierra Energy Company, its sole member      By: /s/ Spencer Doran Hole  Spencer Doran Hole  Vice President and Treasurer
[Signature Page to Amendment No. 3 to Fifth Amended and Restated Ameresco Credit Agreement]  AMERESCO ASSET SUSTAINABILITY GROUP LLC  AMERESCO CT LLC  AMERESCO DELAWARE ENERGY LLC  AMERESCO EVANSVILLE, LLC  AMERESCO HAWAII LLC  AMERESCO INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS, LLC  AMERESCO LFG HOLDINGS LLC  AMERESCO NAVY YARD PEAKER LLC  AMERESCO PALMETTO LLC  AMERESCO SOLAR, LLC  AMERESCO SOLAR NEWBURYPORT LLC  AMERESCO STAFFORD LLC  SELDERA LLC  SOLUTIONS HOLDINGS, LLC    By: Ameresco, Inc., its sole member      By: /s/ Spencer Doran Hole  Spencer Doran Hole  Treasurer, Executive Vice President and Chief  Financial Officer  AMERESCO SOLAR – PRODUCTS LLC  AMERESCO SOLAR – SOLUTIONS LLC  AMERESCO SOLAR – TECHNOLOGIES LLC  By: Ameresco Solar LLC, its sole member  By: Ameresco, Inc., its sole member      By: /s/ Spencer Doran Hole  Spencer Doran Hole  Treasurer, Executive Vice President and Chief  Financial Officer    ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT:    BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.      By: _/s/ Henry Pennell   Name: Henry Pennell   Title: Vice President
[Signature Page to Amendment No. 3 to Fifth Amended and Restated Ameresco Credit Agreement]  LENDER:    BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.      By: _/s/ John F. Lynch    Name: John F. Lynch   Title: Senior Vice President    LENDER     FIFTH THIRD BANK    By: /s/ Robert V. Botschka        Name: Robert V. Botschka   Title: Managing Dirtector    LENDER   KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION    By: /s/ : Renee M. Bonnell       Name: Renee M. Bonnell   Title: Senior Vice President  LENDER   WEBSTER BANK, N.A.    By: /s/ Samuel Pepe        Name: Samuel Pepe   Title: Managing Director  LENDER   M&T BANK, successor by merger to PEOPLE’S  UNITED BANK, N.A.      By: Darci Buchanan       Name: Darci Buchanan   Title: SVP