EX-10.1
2
exhibit101amendment4.htm
EX-10.1
exhibit101amendment4
AMENDMENT NO. 4 TO FIFTH AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT   This AMENDMENT NO. 4 TO FIFTH AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT  AGREEMENT is dated as of December 11, 2023 (this “Amendment”), among AMERESCO, INC.  (the “Borrower”), THE GUARANTORS PARTY HERETO (the “Guarantors” and collectively  with the Borrower, the “Loan Parties”), THE LENDERS PARTY HERETO (the “Lenders”), and  BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the “Administrative Agent”).  WHEREAS, the Loan Parties, the Lenders, and the Administrative Agent are parties to that  certain Fifth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 4, 2022, as amended by  an Amendment No. 1 thereto dated as of June 9, 2022, Amendment No. 2 thereto dated as of  March 17, 2023, and Amendment No. 3 dated as of August 24, 2023, among the Borrower, the  Guarantors, the Lenders, and the Administrative Agent (as amended, restated, supplemented or  otherwise modified from time to time, the “Credit Agreement”);  WHEREAS, the Loan Parties, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders wish to extend  the Maturity Date of the Delayed Draw Term A Loan, revise one financial covenant, and make  certain other changes to the Credit Agreement, and accordingly revise the Credit Agreement, as  described herein;  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the agreements contained  herein, the parties agree that the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:  1. Capitalized Terms. Except as otherwise expressly defined herein, all capitalized  terms used herein which are defined in the Credit Agreement have the same meanings herein as  therein, except to the extent that such meanings are amended hereby.  2. Amendment to Credit Agreement.    (a) Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete in their entirety  clause (b) of the definition of “Alternative Currency Term Rate,” the table entitled “Applicable  Rate” at the end of the first paragraph of the definition of “Applicable Rate” and the final paragraph  of the definition of “Applicable Rate,” and the definitions of “Maturity Date,” “Net Cash  Payments” and “Relevant Rate” and replace them with the following:  “Alternative Currency Term Rate” means, for any day, with respect to any Credit  Extension: …  (b) denominated in Canadian dollars, the rate per annum equal to the forward- looking term rate based on CORRA (“Term CORRA”), as published on the applicable  Reuters screen page (or such other commercially available source providing such  quotations as may be designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) (in such  case, the “Term CORRA Rate”) on the Rate Determination Date with a term equivalent  to such Interest Period plus the Term CORRA Adjustment for such Interest Period;  “Applicable Rate” means …  135405890v.4
2  Applicable Rate  Level Core Leverage  Ratio  Term SOFR & Letter  of Credit Fee Base Rate Commitment  Fee Revolving  Loans  Term  Loan  Revolving  Loans  Term  Loan  1 Greater than 3.75 3.00% 3.00% 2.00% 2.00% 0.400%  2  Greater than 3.25  but less than or  equal to 3.75  2.75% 2.75% 1.75% 1.75% 0.375%  3  Greater than 2.50  but less than or  equal to 3.25  2.50% 2.50% 1.50% 1.50% 0.350%  4  Greater than 1.75  but less than or  equal to 2.50  2.25% 2.25% 1.25% 1.25% 0.300%  5  Greater than 1.00  but less than or  equal to 1.75   2.00% 2.00% 1.00% 1.00% 0.250%  6 Less than or  equal to 1.00  1.75% 1.75% 0.75% 0.75% 0.250%           …  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this definition, (i) the  determination of the Applicable Rate for any period shall be subject to the provisions of  Section 2.10(b) and (ii) the Applicable Rate shall be set at Pricing Level 1 from the  Amendment No. 4 Effective Time until the first Business Day immediately following the  date a Compliance Certificate is delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to  Section 6.01(c) for the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2024. Any adjustment in the  Applicable Rate shall be applicable to all Credit Extensions then existing or subsequently  made or issued.  “Maturity Date” means (a) with respect to the Revolving Facility, March 4, 2025,  (b) with respect to the Term A Facility, March 4, 2025, and (c) with respect to the Delayed  Draw Term A Facility, April 15, 2024; provided, however, that, in each case, if such date  is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.  “Net Cash Payments” means,  (a) with respect to any Casualty Event, the aggregate amount of cash proceeds  of insurance, condemnation awards and other compensation received by the Loan Parties  in respect of such Casualty Event net of (i) reasonable expenses incurred by the Loan  Parties in connection therewith and (ii) contractually required repayments of Indebtedness  to the extent secured by a Lien on such property and (iii) any income and transfer taxes  payable by the Loan Parties in respect of such Casualty Event;
3  (b) with respect to any Disposition, the aggregate amount of all cash payments  received by the Loan Parties directly or indirectly in connection with such Disposition,  whether at the time of such Disposition or after such Disposition under deferred payment  arrangements or Investments entered into or received in connection with such Disposition,  net of (i) the amount of any legal, title, transfer and recording tax expenses, commissions  and other fees and expenses payable by the Loan Parties in connection therewith, (ii) any  Federal, state and local income or other Taxes estimated to be payable by the Loan Parties  as a result thereof, (iii) any repayments by the Loan Parties of Indebtedness to the extent  that such Indebtedness is secured by a Lien on the property that is the subject of such  Disposition and the transferee of (or holder of a Lien on) such property requires that such  Indebtedness be repaid as a condition to the purchase of such property, (iv) any repayments  by the Loan Parties to minority stockholders if and to the extent permitted hereby, and (v)  a reasonable reserve for retained liabilities; and  (c) with respect to any incurrence of Indebtedness or issuance of Equity  Interests, the aggregate amount of all cash proceeds received by the Loan Parties therefrom  less all legal, underwriting, registration, marketing, filing and similar fees and expenses  incurred in connection therewith;  it being understood that “Net Cash Payments” shall include, without limitation, any cash  or cash equivalents received upon the sale or other disposition of any non-cash  consideration received by such Loan Party or any Subsidiary in any Disposition, incurrence  of Indebtedness, or issuance of Equity Interests.  “Relevant Rate” means with respect to any Credit Extension denominated in (a)  Dollars, Term SOFR, (b) Sterling, SONIA, (c) Euros, EURIBOR, and (d) Canadian  Dollars, the Term CORRA Rate, as applicable.  (b) Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is hereby further amended to insert the  following new definitions in alphabetical order:  “Amendment No. 4” means Amendment No. 4 to Fifth Amended and Restated  Credit Agreement dated as of December 11, 2023, among the Borrower, the Guarantors,  the Lenders and the Administrative Agent.  “Amendment No. 4 Effective Time” means the first Business Day on which each  of the conditions of the effectiveness of Amendment No. 4 pursuant to Section 6 thereof  has been satisfied.  “CORRA” means the Canadian Overnight Repo Rate Average administered and  published by the Bank of Canada (or any successor administrator).  “Term CORRA Adjustment” means (i) 0.29547% (29.547 basis points) for an  Interest Period of one-month’s duration and 0.32138% (32.138 basis points) for an Interest  Period of three-months’ duration.  (c) Section 2.05(b)(ii) is hereby amended to replace the term “Net Cash Proceeds: in  the fourth line thereof with the term “Net Cash Payments.”
4  (d) Section 2.07 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting paragraph (a)  in its entirety and replacing it with the following:  (a) Term Loans. The Borrower shall repay to the Term Lenders the aggregate  principal amount of all Term A Loans outstanding in quarterly principal installments on  the last Business Day of each quarter commencing March 31, 2024, in the amount of  $1,250,000, and shall pay (I) $10,000,000 of the aggregate principal amount of all Delayed  Draw Term A Loans on or before January 31, 2024, (II) an additional $10,000,000 of the  aggregate principal amount of the Delayed Draw Term A Loans on or before February 29,  2024, (III) an additional $10,000,000 of the aggregate principal amount of the Delayed  Draw Term A Loans on or before March 31, 2024, and (IV) the balance of the outstanding  principal amount of all Delayed Draw Term A Loans on April 15, 20241 (which amounts  shall be reduced as a result of the application of prepayments in accordance with the order  of priority set forth in Section 2.05), unless accelerated sooner pursuant to Section 8.02;  provided, however, that (i) the final principal repayment installment of the Term A Loans  shall be repaid on the Maturity Date for the Term A Facility and in any event shall be in an  amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of all Term A Loans outstanding on such  date, (ii) if any principal repayment installment to be made by the Borrower (other than  principal repayment installments on Term SOFR Loans) shall come due on a day other  than a Business Day, such principal repayment installment shall be due on the next  succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing  interest or fees, as the case may be and (iii) if any principal repayment installment to be  made by the Borrower on a Term SOFR Loan shall come due on a day other than a Business  Day, such principal repayment installment shall be extended to the next succeeding  Business Day unless the result of such extension would be to extend such principal  repayment installment into another calendar month, in which event such principal  repayment installment shall be due on the immediately preceding Business Day.  (e) Section 2.09 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting immediately  following clause (ii) of paragraph (b) the following clause (iii) as follows:  (iii) The Borrower shall pay to each Term Lender on each of January 31, 2024,  February 29, 2024, and March 31, 2024, a fee equal to 0.125% of the outstanding principal  balance of such Lender’s Delayed Draw Term A Loan as of each of January 31, 2024,  February 29, 2024, and March 31, 2024, respectively.  (f) Article VI of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by inserting the following  new Section 6.16 immediately after Section 6.15:  6.16  SoCal Contract; Additional Junior Capital to Prepay Loans; Liquidity  Forecast  (a) If the Borrower does not achieve Substantial Completion of the Cathode site  project under the SoCal Contract, as defined therein, on or before January 31, 2024, the    1 Note: The payment of $25,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Delayed Draw Term A Loans, as provided in  Section 6(c) of this Amendment, is a condition of the effectiveness of this Amendment.
5  Borrower shall promptly use commercially reasonable efforts to raise and close on (no  later, assuming normal market conditions, than April 15, 2024) a minimum of  $100,000,000 from the issuance of Equity Interests or Subordinated Indebtedness of the  Borrower, the Net Cash Payments of which shall be applied immediately upon receipt (i)  to prepay the unpaid principal balance of the Delayed Draw Term A Loan and (ii) the  balance to reduce the Revolving Loan; provided that, Borrower will not be required to seek  or close the financing described in this paragraph if, after repayment in full of the Delayed  Draw Term A Loan, the Borrower demonstrates (on a onetime basis) on or before  February 29, 2024, to the reasonable satisfaction of the Administrative Agent minimum  liquidity of $75,000,000, comprising cash and cash equivalents and immediately available  capacity under the Revolving Loan..  (b) Until the Delayed Draw Term A Facility has been paid in full, the Borrower  shall provide to the Administrative Agent a weekly update to its liquidity forecast in the  form previously provided to the Administrative Agent or in such other form as is  reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.  (g) Section 7.04(c)(xiii) is hereby amended to replace the term “Net Cash Proceeds” in  the first line thereof with the term “Net Cash Payments.”  (h) Section 7.10 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended by deleting paragraph (a)  in its entirety and replacing it with the following:  (a) Total Funded Debt to EBITDA Ratio.  The Loan Parties shall not permit the  Core Leverage Ratio as of the end of each fiscal quarter (i) ending on December 31, 2023  to exceed 3.75 to 1.00, and (ii) for any quarter ending thereafter, to exceed 3.50 to 1.00.  (i) Section 8.01 is hereby amended by deleting paragraph (c) in its entirety and  replacing it with the following:  (c) the Loan Parties (i) shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition  or agreement contained in Sections 6.01(a), (b), (c) or (d), 6.02(a), 6.05, 6.06, 6.08, 6.09,  6.10, 6.16 or in Article VII (it being expressly acknowledged and agreed that any Event of  Default resulting from the failure of the Loan Parties at any measurement date to satisfy  any financial covenant set forth in Section 7.10 shall not be deemed to be “cured” or  remedied by the Loan Parties’ satisfaction of such financial covenant at any subsequent  measurement date) or (ii) shall fail to observe or perform any other covenant, condition or  agreement contained in Sections 6.03, 6.04, 6.07, 6.11, 6.12 or 6.13 and such failure  described in this clause (ii) shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after the  earlier of (x) actual knowledge by an officer of any Loan Party or (y) notice thereof from  the Administrative Agent (given at the request of any Lender) to the Loan Parties;  3. Confirmation of Guaranty by Guarantors. Each Guarantor hereby confirms and  agrees that all indebtedness, obligations or liabilities of the Borrower under the Credit Agreement  as amended hereby, whether any such indebtedness, obligations and liabilities are now existing or  hereafter arising, due or to become due, absolute or contingent, or direct or indirect, constitute  “Guaranteed Obligations” under and as defined in the Credit Agreement and, subject to the
6  limitation set forth in Section 10.01 of the Credit Agreement, are guaranteed by and entitled to the  benefits of the Guaranty set forth in Article X of the Credit Agreement. Each Guarantor hereby  ratifies and confirms the terms and provisions of such Guarantor’s Guaranty and agrees that all of  such terms and provisions remain in full force and effect.  4. Confirmation of Security Interests. Each Loan Party hereby confirms and agrees  that all indebtedness, obligations and liabilities of the Loan Parties under the Credit Agreement as  amended hereby, whether any such indebtedness, obligations and liabilities are now existing or  hereafter arising, due or to become due, absolute or contingent, or direct or indirect, constitute  “Secured Obligations” under and as defined in the Credit Agreement and are secured by the  Collateral and entitled to the benefits of the grant of security interests pursuant to the Security  Agreement. The Loan Parties hereby ratify and confirm the terms and provisions of the Security  Agreement and agree that, after giving effect to this Amendment, all of such terms and provisions  remain in full force and effect.  5. No Default; Representations and Warranties, etc. The Loan Parties hereby confirm  that, after giving effect to this Amendment, (i) the representations and warranties of the Loan  Parties contained in Article V of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents (A) that  contain a materiality qualification are true and correct on and as of the date hereof as if made on  such date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier  date), and (B) that do not contain a materiality qualification are true and correct in all material  respects on and as of the date hereof as if made on such date (except to the extent that such  representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date), and (ii) no Default or Event of  Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Each Loan Party hereby further represents and  warrants that (a) the execution, delivery and performance by such Loan Party of this Amendment  (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary action on the part of such Loan Party, (ii) will not  violate any applicable law or regulation or the organizational documents of such Loan Party, (iii)  will not violate or result in a default under any indenture, agreement or other instrument binding  on such Loan Party or any of its assets that will have a Material Adverse Effect, and (iv) do not  require any consent, waiver, approval, authorization or order of, or filing, registration or  qualification with, any court or governmental authority or any Person (other than the  Administrative Agent and the Lenders) which has not been made or obtained; and (b) it has duly  executed and delivered this Amendment.  6. Conditions to Effectiveness. This Amendment shall become effective upon the  receipt by the Administrative Agent of all of the following:  (a) counterparts of this Amendment duly executed by the Loan Parties, the  Administrative Agent and all the Lenders or written evidence reasonably satisfactory to the  Administrative Agent that such parties have signed a counterpart of this Amendment;  (b) such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent may reasonably  request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of each Loan Party, the  authorization of the transactions contemplated hereby and any other legal matters relating to the  Loan Parties, this Amendment or the other Loan Documents, all in form and substance reasonably  satisfactory to the Administrative Agent;
7  (c) payment by the Borrower to the Term Lenders of $25,000,000 of the aggregate  principal amount of the Delayed Draw Term A Loans; and  (d) payment by the Borrower to each Term Lender of a fee equal to 0.25% of the  outstanding principal balance of such Lender’s Delayed Draw Term A Loan, net of the amount  paid at the closing of this Amendment.  7. Miscellaneous.  (a) Except to the extent specifically amended hereby, the Credit Agreement, the Loan  Documents and all related documents shall remain in full force and effect. This Amendment shall  constitute a Loan Document. Whenever the terms or sections amended hereby shall be referred to  in the Credit Agreement, Loan Documents or such other documents (whether directly or by  incorporation into other defined terms), such defined terms shall be deemed to refer to those terms  or sections as amended by this Amendment.  (b) This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which,  when executed and delivered, shall be an original, but all counterparts shall together constitute one  instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Amendment by  facsimile transmission or electronic transmission (in .pdf format) will be effective as delivery of a  manually executed counterpart hereof.  This Amendment may be in the form of an Electronic  Record and may be executed using Electronic Signatures (including, without limitation, facsimile  and .pdf) and shall be considered an original, and shall have the same legal effect, validity and  enforceability as a paper record.  For the avoidance of doubt, the authorization under this paragraph  may include, without limitation, use or acceptance by the Administrative Agent of a manually  signed paper communication which has been converted into electronic form (such as scanned into  .pdf format), or an electronically signed communication converted into another format, for  transmission, delivery and/or retention.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the  contrary, the Administrative Agent is under no obligation to accept an Electronic Signature in any  form or in any format unless expressly agreed to by the Administrative Agent pursuant to  procedures approved by it; provided, further, without limiting the foregoing, (a) to the extent the  Administrative Agent has agreed to accept such Electronic Signature, the Administrative Agent  shall be entitled to rely on any such Electronic Signature purportedly given by or on behalf of a  Person without further verification and (b) upon the request of the Administrative Agent, any  Electronic Signature shall be promptly followed by a manually executed, original counterpart.  (c) This Amendment shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York and shall  be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and  assigns.  (d) The Loan Parties agree to pay all reasonable expenses, including legal fees and  disbursements, incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with this Amendment and the  transactions contemplated hereby.  [Signature Pages Follow]
[Signature Page to Amendment No. 4 to Fifth Amended and Restated Ameresco Credit Agreement]  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment, which shall  be deemed to be a sealed instrument as of the date first above written.    BORROWER    AMERESCO, INC.  By: /s/ Spencer Doran Hole______________  Spencer Doran Hole  Treasurer, Executive Vice President and Chief  Financial Officer    GUARANTORS    AMERESCO FEDERAL SOLUTIONS, INC.  AMERESCO PLANERGY HOUSING, INC.  AMERESCO SELECT, INC.  AMERESCOSOLUTIONS, INC.  APPLIED ENERGY GROUP INC.  JUICE TECHNOLOGIES, INC.  SIERRA ENERGY COMPANY  By: /s/ Spencer Doran Hole______________  Spencer Doran Hole  Vice President and Treasurer  AMERESCO SOUTHWEST, INC.      By: /s/ Spencer Doran Hole______________  Spencer Doran Hole  Vice President and Treasurer  E.THREE CUSTOM ENERGY SOLUTIONS, LLC,  By: Sierra Energy Company, its sole member      By: /s/ Spencer Doran Hole______________  Spencer Doran Hole  Vice President and Treasurer
[Signature Page to Amendment No. 4 to Fifth Amended and Restated Ameresco Credit Agreement]  AMERESCO ASSET SUSTAINABILITY GROUP LLC  AMERESCO CT LLC  AMERESCO DELAWARE ENERGY LLC  AMERESCO EVANSVILLE, LLC  AMERESCO HAWAII LLC  AMERESCO INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS, LLC  AMERESCO LFG HOLDINGS LLC  AMERESCO NAVY YARD PEAKER LLC  AMERESCO PALMETTO LLC  AMERESCO SOLAR, LLC  AMERESCO SOLAR NEWBURYPORT LLC  AMERESCO STAFFORD LLC  SELDERA LLC  SOLUTIONS HOLDINGS, LLC    By: Ameresco, Inc., its sole member      By: /s/ Spencer Doran Hole______________  Spencer Doran Hole  Treasurer, Executive Vice President and Chief  Financial Officer  AMERESCO SOLAR – PRODUCTS LLC  AMERESCO SOLAR – SOLUTIONS LLC  AMERESCO SOLAR – TECHNOLOGIES LLC  By: Ameresco Solar LLC, its sole member  By: Ameresco, Inc., its sole member      By: /s/ Spencer Doran Hole______________  Spencer Doran Hole  Treasurer, Executive Vice President and Chief  Financial Officer
[Signature Page to Amendment No. 4 to Fifth Amended and Restated Ameresco Credit Agreement]    ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT:    BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.      By: _ /s/ Henry Pennell_____________________________   Name: Henry Pennell   Title: Vice President        LENDER:    BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.      By: /s/ John F. Lynch_____________________________   Name: John F. Lynch   Title: Senior Vice President    LENDER   FIFTH THIRD BANK, NATIONAL  ASSOCIATION      By:/s/ Robert V. Botschka      Name: Robert V. Botschka   Title: Managing Director  LENDER   KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION      By:/s/ Renee M. Bonnell       Name: Renee M. Bonnell   Title: Senior Vice President
[Signature Page to Amendment No. 4 to Fifth Amended and Restated Ameresco Credit Agreement]  LENDER   WEBSTER BANK, N.A.      By: :/s/ Samuel Pepe       Samuel Pepe   Title: Managing Director    LENDER   M&T BANK, successor by merger to PEOPLE’S  UNITED BANK, N.A.      By: /s/ Kathryn Williams       Name: Kathryn Williams   Title: SVP