EX-10.1
3
tm2319648d1_ex10-1.htm
EXHIBIT 10.1
Exhibit 10.1
TERMINATION AGREEMENT
This TERMINATION AGREEMENT (this
“
Agreement
”), dated as of June 26, 2023, is made and entered into by and between Option Care Health, Inc.,
a Delaware corporation (“
OPCH
”), Uintah Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of OPCH and a Delaware corporation
(“
OPCH Merger Sub
”), and Amedisys, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“
Amedisys
”, together with
OPCH and OPCH Merger Sub, the “
parties
” and each, a “
party
”). Capitalized terms used herein but
not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the OPCH Merger Agreement (as defined below).
W I T N E S S E T H:
WHEREAS, the parties hereto
are parties to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 3, 2023 (the “
OPCH Merger Agreement
”);
WHEREAS, Section 8.1(a) of
the OPCH Merger Agreement provides that the Merger Agreement may be terminated by mutual written consent of Amedisys and OPCH;
WHEREAS, Amedisys and OPCH have
mutually agreed to terminate the OPCH Merger Agreement; and
WHEREAS, immediately after the
execution of this Agreement, Amedisys intends to enter into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, a Delaware
corporation (“
UnitedHealth
”), and Aurora Holdings Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary
of UnitedHealth (the “
Optum Merger Agreement
”).
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration
of the foregoing and the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained taken as a whole, the parties agree as follows effective immediately
upon the execution of this Agreement by each of the parties hereto:
Section 1.
Matters Related
to the Termination of the OPCH Merger Agreement
.
(a)
Termination
.
Effective as of the receipt by OPCH of the Amedisys Termination Fee (as defined below) pursuant to Section 2 below (the “
Effective
Time
”) and only if the payment of the Amedisys Termination Fee is received within 24 hours of the execution of this Agreement,
the parties hereto mutually agree that pursuant to Section 8.1(a) of the OPCH Merger Agreement, the OPCH Merger Agreement is
hereby terminated.
(b)
No
Further Obligations
. Except with respect to the obligations of the parties set forth in the Confidentiality Agreement, that certain
Clean Team Confidentiality Agreement, dated as of April 12, 2023 (the “
Clean Team Agreement
”), by and among OPCH
and Amedisys, and
Section 2
below, upon the Effective Time and only if the payment of the Amedisys Termination Fee is received
within 24 hours of the execution of this Agreement, (i) no party shall have any further obligations to any other party under the
OPCH Merger Agreement, any agreement or instrument delivered in connection therewith or in connection with any of the transactions contemplated
thereby and (ii) each party shall be free to conduct its business and affairs in the same manner as if the OPCH Merger Agreement
had not been executed.
Section 2.
Termination
Fees
. Amedisys shall pay, or cause to be paid, to OPCH an amount equal to $106,000,000 (the “
Amedisys Termination Fee
”)
by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the account specified on Annex A hereto, such wire transfer to be initiated immediately
after the execution and delivery of this Agreement by each party. OPCH irrevocably agrees to accept the payment of such Amedisys Termination
Fee if paid pursuant to the terms of this
Section 2
.
Section 3.
Mutual Releases
.
(a)
Effective
as at the Effective Time and only if the payment of the Amedisys Termination Fee is received within 24 hours of the execution of this
Agreement, to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law, Amedisys, on behalf of itself, its subsidiaries, stockholders, affiliates,
officers, directors, employees and Representatives (collectively, the “
Amedisys Parties
”) hereby unequivocally, knowingly,
voluntarily, unconditionally and irrevocably waives, fully and finally releases, remises, exculpates, acquits and forever discharges OPCH
and OPCH’s subsidiaries, stockholders, affiliates, officers, directors, employees and Representatives (collectively, the “
OPCH
Parties
”) from any and all direct or derivative actions, causes of action, suits, debts, accounts, bonds, bills, covenants,
contracts, controversies, obligations, claims, counterclaims, setoffs, debts, demands, damages, costs, expenses, compensation and liabilities
of every kind and any nature whatsoever, in each case whether absolute or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, known or unknown, and
whether arising at law or in equity, which such Amedisys Party had, has, or may have based upon, arising from, in connection with or relating
to the OPCH Merger Agreement, any agreement or instrument delivered in connection therewith or the transactions contemplated thereby.
Notwithstanding the immediately foregoing sentence and
Section 1
, (i) no party shall be released from any breach of this
Agreement or have its respective rights and obligations under this Agreement impaired, and (ii) the Confidentiality Agreement and
the Clean Team Agreement will each continue in full force and effect in accordance with its terms, and no party to the Confidentiality
Agreement or the Clean Team Agreement shall be released from any direct or derivative actions or claims which may arise thereunder. On
and from the Effective Time and only if the payment of the Amedisys Termination Fee is received within 24 hours of the execution of this
Agreement, each Amedisys Party shall refrain from, directly or indirectly, asserting any direct or derivative claim or demand or commencing,
instituting, maintaining, facilitating, aiding or causing to be commenced, instituted or maintained, any direct or derivative legal or
arbitral proceeding of any kind against any Amedisys Party based upon any matter released under this
Section 3(a)
.
(b)
Effective
as at the Effective Time and only if the payment of the Amedisys Termination Fee is received within 24 hours of the execution of this
Agreement, to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law, OPCH, on behalf of itself and each OPCH Party, hereby unequivocally, knowingly,
voluntarily, unconditionally and irrevocably waives, fully and finally releases, remises, exculpates, acquits and forever discharges each
Amedisys Party from any and all direct or derivative actions, causes of action, suits, debts, accounts, bonds, bills, covenants, contracts,
controversies, obligations, claims, counterclaims, setoffs, debts, demands, damages, costs, expenses, compensation and liabilities of
every kind and any nature whatsoever, in each case whether absolute or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, known or unknown, and whether
arising at law or in equity, which such OPCH Party had, has, or may have based upon, arising from, in connection with or relating to the
OPCH Merger Agreement, any agreement or instrument delivered in connection therewith or the transactions contemplated thereby. Notwithstanding
the immediately foregoing sentence and
Section 1
, (i) no party shall be released from any breach of this Agreement or
have its respective rights and obligations under this Agreement impaired, (ii) nothing contained in this paragraph shall in any way
affect or impair OPCH’s right to receive payment of the Amedisys Termination Fee pursuant to
Section 2
of this Agreement,
and (iii) the Confidentiality Agreement and the Clean Team Agreement will each continue in full force and effect in accordance with
its terms, and no party to the Confidentiality Agreement or the Clean Team Agreement shall be released from any direct or derivative actions
or claims which may arise thereunder. On and from the Effective Time and only if the payment of the Amedisys Termination Fee is received
within 24 hours of the execution of this Agreement, each OPCH Party shall refrain from, directly or indirectly, asserting any direct or
derivative claim or demand or commencing, instituting, maintaining, facilitating, aiding or causing to be commenced, instituted or maintained,
any direct or derivative legal or arbitral proceeding of any kind against any Amedisys Party based upon any matter released under this
Section 3(b)
.
2
Section 4.
No Breach
.
For the avoidance of doubt the entry by Amedisys into the Optum Merger Agreement shall not be deemed to be a breach of the OPCH Merger
Agreement or this Agreement if Amedisys shall have provided to OPCH evidence of a federal wire to OPCH for the payment of the Amedisys
Termination Fee prior to such entry and OPCH receives the Amedisys Termination Fee within 24 hours of the execution of this Agreement.
Section 5.
Representations
and Warranties
. Each of the parties hereby represents that the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by it has been
duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action and no other corporate proceedings by or on the part of it are necessary
to authorize this Agreement or to perform its obligations hereunder; this Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by
it, and assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery hereof by the other party hereto, constitutes its legal, valid and binding
obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with the terms hereof, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions.
Section 6.
Destruction/Return
of Confidential Information
. At the Effective Time and only if the payment of the Amedisys Termination Fee is received within 24 hours
of the execution of this Agreement, each of Amedisys and OPCH requests of the other that (i) such other party and its Representatives
(as defined in the Confidentiality Agreement) return or destroy all Confidential Information (as defined in the Confidentiality Agreement)
in accordance with Section 7 of the Confidentiality Agreement and (ii) an appropriate officer of such other party certifies
such return or destruction of the Confidential Information in accordance with Section 7 of the Confidentiality Agreement.
Section 7.
General Provisions
.
(a)
Counterparts
.
This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become
effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties hereto and delivered to the other parties.
3
(b)
Entire
Agreement; No Third-Party Beneficiaries; No Additional Representations
. This Agreement (including the documents, exhibits, schedules,
disclosure letters and instruments referred to herein), taken together with the Confidentiality Agreement and the Clean Team Agreement:
(i) constitutes the entire agreement, and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, among OPCH,
OPCH Merger Sub and Amedisys with respect to the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and (ii) is not
intended to, and does not, confer upon any person other than the parties hereto any rights or remedies hereunder, other than as provided
in
Section 3(a)
and
Section 3(b)
.
(c)
Assignment
.
Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations under this Agreement shall be assigned, in whole or in part, by
operation of law or otherwise by any of the parties without the prior written consent of the other parties. Any purported assignment in
violation of the preceding sentence shall be void. Subject to the preceding two sentences, this Agreement will be binding upon, inure
to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their respective successors and assigns.
(d)
GOVERNING
LAW
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE, REGARDLESS OF THE LAWS
THAT MIGHT OTHERWISE GOVERN UNDER ANY APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS THEREOF.
(e)
WAIVER
OF JURY TRIAL
. EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ANY CONTROVERSY WHICH MAY ARISE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IS LIKELY TO INVOLVE
COMPLICATED AND DIFFICULT ISSUES, AND THEREFORE IT HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS
AGREEMENT AND ANY OF THE AGREEMENTS DELIVERED IN CONNECTION HEREWITH OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY. EACH PARTY CERTIFIES
AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT (A) NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH
OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER, (B) IT UNDERSTANDS AND HAS CONSIDERED
THE IMPLICATIONS OF SUCH WAIVER, (C) IT MAKES SUCH WAIVER VOLUNTARILY AND (D) IT HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT
BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVER AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS
SECTION 5(E)
.
4
(f)
Jurisdiction
.
In any action between the parties arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, each of
the parties (i) irrevocably and unconditionally consents and submits to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the Court of Chancery
of the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County, Delaware, (ii) agrees that it will not attempt to deny or defeat such jurisdiction
by motion or other request for leave from such court and (iii) agrees that it will not bring any such action in any court other than
the Court of Chancery for the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County, Delaware, or, if (and only if) such court finds it lacks
subject matter jurisdiction, the federal court of the United States of America sitting in Delaware, and appellate courts thereof, or,
if (and only if) each of such Court of Chancery for the State of Delaware and such federal court finds it lacks subject matter jurisdiction,
any state court within the State of Delaware. Service of process, summons, notice or document to any party’s address and in the
manner set forth in Section 9.2 of the OPCH Merger Agreement shall be effective service of process for any such action.
[
Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank
]
5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, each
of the parties has caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date first written above.
Option
Care Health, Inc.
By:
/s/ John C. Rademacher
Name: John C. Rademacher
Title: President and Chief Executive Officer
UNITAH
MERGER SUB, INC.
By:
/s/ Michael Shapiro
Name: Michael Shapiro
Title: Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
[Signature Page to the
Termination Agreement]
Amedisys, INC.
By:
/s/ Richard Ashworth
Name: Richard Ashworth
Title: President and Chief Executive Officer
[Signature Page to the
Termination Agreement]
Annex A
Wire Instructions
Account number:
Routing number ACH/EFT
Wire Routing:
Swift:
Account Name:
Account Type:
Bank name and address: